# Week 1

Welcome to week one of this Fall 2022 RAD workshop. The goal of the workshop is to give a comprehensive introduction to the analysis of RADseq data, with no pre-requisite experience. Our goal for the semester is to go through the entire processing pipeline, starting with entire lane(s) of raw illumina reads, and finishing by using our rigorously filtered dataset for population genetic and phylogenetic analyses that will reveal the evolutionary history of our organisms of interest.

This week, we will start by covering basic command-line interface. We will practice logging into the KU high performance computing cluster (KUHPCC). On the cluster, we will go over the basics of directory structure, how to create new directories, how to view files, etc.

Then, each of us will copy our datasets, stored as entire lanes of raw illumina data generated by the KU Genome Sequencing Core (KUGSC), from KU Research File Storage into the directory that we created for our projects on the KUHPCC.

### Next week
Next week, we will go over the details of how and why be barcode, pool, and demultiplex our individual samples. Please read the paper [Harnessing the power of RADseq for ecological and evolutionary genomics](https://github.com/DevonDeRaad/Fall.2022.RAD.workshop/blob/main/key.reading/nrg.2015.28.pdf) and come prepared to discuss what RADseq is and why we do it. After our discussion, we will work on demultiplexing our illumina lanes into individual sample files using the Stacks function [process_radtags](https://catchenlab.life.illinois.edu/stacks/comp/process_radtags.php).
